docs(recipes): Active users recipe (#3310)
cube-js/cube.js: docs/content/Examples-Tutorials-Recipes/Active-users.md

  - /active-users
---

## Use case

We want to know the customer engagement of our store. To do this, we need to use
an [Active Users metric](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_users).

## Data schema

Daily, weekly, and monthly active users are commonly referred to as DAU, WAU,
MAU. To get these metrics, we need to use a rolling time frame to calculate a
daily count of how many users interacted with the product or website in the
prior day, 7 days, or 30 days. Also, we can build other metrics on top of these

> basic metrics. For example, the WAU to MAU ratio. We can add it, using already

Reviewer: ```suggestion
basic metrics. For example, the WAU to MAU ratio, which we can add by using already
```

defined `weeklyActiveUsers` and `monthlyActiveUsers`.

To calculate daily, weekly, or monthly active users we’re going to use the
[`rollingWindow`](https://cube.dev/docs/schema/reference/measures#parameters-rolling-window)
measure parameter.

```javascript
cube(`Users`, {
  sql: `SELECT * FROM public.users`,

  measures: {
    monthlyActiveUsers: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinct`,
      rollingWindow: {
        trailing: `30 day`,
        offset: `start`,
      },
    },

    weeklyActiveUsers: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinct`,
      rollingWindow: {
        trailing: `7 day`,
        offset: `start`,
      },
    },

    dailyActiveUsers: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinct`,
      rollingWindow: {
        trailing: `1 day`,
        offset: `start`,
      },
    },

    wauToMau: {
      title: `WAU to MAU`,
      sql: `100.000 * ${weeklyActiveUsers} / NULLIF(${monthlyActiveUsers}, 0)`,
      type: `number`,
      format: `percent`,
    },
  },

  dimensions: {
    createdAt: {
      sql: `created_at`,
      type: `time`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Query

> We should set a `timeDimensions` with the `dateRange` in the query that will

Reviewer: Should this be "... in the query that will be sent to the Cube API"?

Author: Yeah, I guess we can delete that :)
